---
layout: default
title: 2/5/2024 - Notes
nav_order: 2
parent: Chess
---


Let's see if I remember how to do markdown for these blog post, so far not so much if the Index is anything to go by.

----

Here are the stats for the day, not so bad but with a tournament right around the corner we of course want to be better.

|Game Type                   | Rating         | Wins     | Draws    | Losses   |
|:---------------------------|:--------------:|:--------:|:--------:|:--------:|
|Bullet                      | 643            | 291      | 19       | 307      |
|Blitz                       | 834            | 471      | 40       | 467      |
|Rapid                       | 1,592          | 234      | 23       | 138      |
|Daily                       | 1,032          | 9        | 0        | 2        |

----

Resources:

- (Daniel Naroditsky: Alapin Speerun)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6WyNj23mrCc]



----

Hot damn chess made me tired today. I got part of the way through a speedrun video after work and had to take a nap. Going through all the calculations in my head is just brute force at the moment and not even a little autopilot yet. Not enough patterns saved in my brain yet I guess.

Something that comes up a bit in my games is the Sicilian. I'm not a big fan of it and I generally go some variation of the Alapin opening. Currently I do the 1.e4 d5, 2.c3, Nf6 and I like the immediate d4 which I use to completely open up the game. I hate closed Sicilians, especially in fast games. They're annoying and complex, but Naroditsky has an interesting take on this (and I'm sure this is main line) where he pushes e5 pushing the Knight to Nd5 and then I can play Nf3. This leaves all the pieces on the board and he does this weird thing after black plays d6 where he throws a check on Bb5. Black plays Bd7 and then white drops the bishop back to c4. It's crazy, but Naroditsky has some really cool continuations.

Typing out all of the positions is weird, but I think I need to do it for my tournament so best to get some practice in.

----

I didn't get to play a single Alapin I don't think after reading and watching up on it. That's unfortunate, instead I played against the Caro about a dozen times. It is my second highest played opening next to the Scotch Game. Nightmare. I really hate the Caro-Kann, but my win rate is 55% and I draw 11% of the games outside of that so that's good. I think most of the time I just go off book as soon as possible so people don't get to do what they want. It's probably my least favorite opening to play against. I need to read up on it.

Maybe I do a Chessable for it. Anyway. Finishing the day at 863, went on a pretty wild series of wins right before bed. Didn't quite crack 1,000 games, but I'm sure I will tomorrow.